Redux is an open-source state management library used primarily with React (but it can also be used with other JavaScript
 frameworks). It helps manage and share application data (state) in a centralized and predictable way.

Redux stores the application's state in a single store and updates it through actions and reducers.

Why Redux is Used
Redux is useful when:
Many components need access to the same data.
You want to avoid passing data through multiple components (prop drilling).
The application has complex state management.
You need predictable state updates and easier debugging.


Core Concepts of Redux
Store
A central object that holds the application's state.
There is typically one store for the entire application.
Action
A plain JavaScript object that describes what happened.

Example:

{
  type: "ADD_TODO",
  payload: "Learn Redux"
}
Reducer
A function that takes the current state and an action, then returns a new state.

Example:

function todoReducer(state = [], action) {
  switch (action.type) {
    case "ADD_TODO":
      return [...state, action.payload];
    default:
      return state;
  }
}
Dispatch
Sends an action to the Redux store.

Example:

store.dispatch({
  type: "ADD_TODO",
  payload: "Learn Redux"
});

Redux Data Flow
User Action
     ↓
Dispatch(Action)
     ↓
Reducer
     ↓
Store Updates State
     ↓
UI Re-renders

Advantages of Redux
Centralized state management.
Predictable state updates.
Easier debugging with Redux DevTools.
Avoids prop drilling.
Suitable for large and complex applications.

Disadvantages of Redux
Requires additional setup and boilerplate (though modern Redux Toolkit reduces this significantly).
Can be unnecessary for small applications.
Has a learning curve for beginners.

Redux Architecture
Redux consists of four main components:
1. Store
The Store is the central repository that holds the entire application's state.
There is usually only one store in a Redux application.
2. Action
An Action is a plain JavaScript object that describes what happened.
It must contain a type property and can optionally include additional data (payload).
3. Reducer
A Reducer is a pure function that receives the current state and an action.
It returns a new state without modifying the existing state.
4. Dispatch
Dispatch is a method used to send an action to the Redux store.
The store forwards the action to the reducer.

Step-by-Step Data Flow
--User performs an action
   Example: Clicks the "Add to Cart" button.
--Action is dispatched
--Reducer processes the action
--Store updates the state
  Redux saves the new state returned by the reducer.
--UI updates automatically 
Components subscribed to the store receive the updated state and re-render


slice is a feature-specific section of your Redux store that contains its own state, reducers, and actions.